## Backup service degradation

This page documents progress on mitigating the Backup service degradation
problems some customers currently experience. The inital description has been
moved to the bottom of this page.

* 07.04.2018 at 10:00 - Status update

* 02.03.2018 at 15:00 - Status update

* 26.02.2018 at 14:00 - Status update

* 16.02.2018 at 12:00 - Initial description and mitigation plans


### Work towards mitigation

Safespring is currently working at our highest priority to add resources to the
service. We believe this will bring the problem under control and resume normal
service quality for all users. As the migration process will be incremental we
expect full mitigation to take time. The service will remain operational while
this work happens.

#### Worklog Saturday 9.4.2018 10:00

* Migration of data is still ongoing. No data loss or unexpected side issues have been reported during this work.

* Max load on the main server is still high but under control. We've not had further reports of the original problem where backup sessions were incomplete.

* Customers might still experience slow response during certain operations using the portal at peak load times - 20 to 60 seconds is not unusual. If this happens, the portal might seem stuck, but please wait to let it complete. Our experience is that the requests will eventually complete successfully.


#### Worklog Friday 2.3.2108 15:00

* We've successfully developed and started using a migration process
  that will allow us to spread the load on the service.

* Together with our largest customer we've migrated around ~40 nodes and their
  complete backup data and history. As of today, no data loss or unexpected
  side issues has arised.

* We're seeing data migration speeds at around 500MB/s which is good considered
  the service has and still will be fully operational while the migrations take
  place.

* No further customer reports of missed backing up of files has been reported.
  If you want to check if you might be affected, read the rest of this page.

#### Worklog Monday 26.2.2018 14:00

* New hardware has been put in place and verified

* A PKI infrastructure to expand the service to X new nodes has been
  verified.

* New versions of backup clients have been developed, adding a required new CA
  certificate. Early releases of updated clients are available for select
  customers. We do not yet recommend all users to upgrade.

* A first batch of nodes has been replicated, verified and successfully moved
  to the new server. We work with select customers in this process, focusing on
  relieving load on the main server as quickly as possible.

* As we mature the replication process we expect to be able to move much larger
  batches of nodes, speeding up the migration considerably.

### Description

We have been experiencing database load issues on the server on which the BaaS
service is based and are working on sharding the nodes among a pool of new
servers. This has shown itself as a delay when using the API or the web portal
while doing node operations which updated several fields at once, but we have
now received reports of clients that misbehave in such a way that you might get
OK reports even if the client has not inspected all of its files.

The cause of this seems to be the following:

dsmcad is the lightweight program used to keep track of when the schedule of a
particular node is to be run. When this occurs, it starts the "dsmc" client to
run and collects the result from it, then goes to
sleep again, until the next scheduled event is set to happen.

For some reason (this has been a registered bug in the TSM client previously),
with the situation now where the backend database is slower to answer queries,
dsmcad ends up thinking the session is done or idle and asks "dsmc" to end,
just like would happen if you run "dsmc" interactively and press Q twice to
make a clean exit.

The devious part of this is that from the server side, it looks very much like
the client node did backup everything it wanted to back up and
then executed a clean exit, which means the nightly report will consider this
run a full success.

#### How do you know if you are impacted or not?

We believe the chance of being impacted is related to scheduling of backups.
Currently known instances of the problem occurs in periods with high to very
high load on the service, typically during the night.

To check if this might have occured to a node you control, run:

    dsmc query backup <file that frequently changes> -inactive

For Linux/Unix machines, you might use the file /var/log/cron. For Windows
machines, some other local log file like C:\Windows\WindowsUpdate.log
